As I mentioned at the end of the last video, we are going to now focus on this landing page.
We need to figure out whether or not the user is signed in at any given point in time and then display
on the screen either you are signed in or you are not signed in.
Now, doing this is going to be a little bit more challenging than you might expect just because we
are using server side rendering.
I first want to begin this video by giving you a quick reminder of how we can decide whether or not
we are signed in in general.
So here's what we want to do.
We want to make sure that we make a request off to our service, specifically a request to the API users
current user route.
If we are signed in, then the response we get back is going to have some information about ourselves.
So for example, our ID, our email and so on.
But if we are not signed in, the response is going to have null.
So ultimately that's what we want to do.
To find whether or not we are signed in, we got to make a request off to this current user endpoint.
Now, the real question here is when are we going to make this request?
Chances are that whenever a user makes an initial request to our server, so this initial request to
get our application, we want to have some kind of HTML file being immediately sent back with some relevant
content inside of it.
In other words, this HTML file that we send back immediately needs to say whether or not the user is
signed in.
So that means that we need to figure out essentially how to make the request while our application is
being built or served from our next gen server.
So we're going have to inspect this entire server side rendering approach just a little bit more and
get a better idea or understanding of what's going on with it.
So quick diagram.
All right.
So here's what's actually going on behind the scenes whenever we make a request to our next DJ's application.
So request is going to come in to the next JSP and on our client pod or inside that container, the
following logic is going to be executed.
Next JS is going to take a look at the URL of the incoming request, and based upon that URL, it's
going to decide what components to show.
So in other words, it's going to decide whether or not it needs to show the sign up page or the banana
page or the root route page.
Then for each those components that it decides that needs to show it's going to call the get initial
props static method for each of these relevant components.
What is get initial props?
Well, let me show you back inside my code editor.
I'm going to find my index file.
Inside of here.
We've got a very simple component function right now.
I'm going to update this thing just a little bit.
I'm going to change the name of this, or I'm going to assign this function to a variable.
I'll call about landing page.
I'll then do an export default of landing page down here at the bottom.
Then in between the two, I'm going to say landing page, get initial props.
So this get initial props thing is specific to next JRS.
If we decide to implement get initial props, the next DJs is going to call this function while it is
attempting to render our application on the server.
Get initial props is our opportunity to attempt to fetch some data that this component needs during
the server side rendering process.
So if we decide to implement get initial props, it will be automatically called on the server when
next JZ decides to show this component.
Once get initial props is invoked.
Any data that we return from it, usually in the form of an object, is going to be provided to our
component as a prop.
So we're going to render each component that next decided to show with whatever data we return from.
Get initial props.
Next JS is then going to take the HTML from all the components that rendered and send back a full response.
So long story short, if we ever want to fetch some data with next JS during the server side rendering
process, we are going to define this get initial prop function right here and this is where we can
make some async requests.
We can somehow generate data, whatever we need to do to fetch data we are going to implement inside
of get initial props and this function will be executed on the server.
We cannot do any data loading inside of components themselves when we render a component with next JZ
during the server side rendering phase, we don't get any opportunity to make requests.
All of our components are executed or rendered just one single time.
So we cannot attempt to say make a request and then wait for the response and possibly try to update
some state or anything like that.
Instead, each of our components during server side rendering are just rendered once we take the result
and that's it.
That's what's going to be sent back to the user.
Now of course, after our application shows up on the browser, all bets are off, get initial props
not really used anymore.
Instead, we're going to rely upon our components implementation.
So all this discussion around get initial props is really just about the server side rendering process.
That's it.
And it helped you really understand how this stuff works.
Let's just put in a little bit of test code inside this index file.
Inside of get initial props.
I'm going to put in a console log of I am on the server.
And then after that, I'm going to return an empty object.
So this empty object right here is going to show up as props to a landing page to make it a little bit
more interesting.
Let's put some imaginary data inside there.
I'm going to put in how about a color of red?
So now I would be able to access that property as a prop inside this component so I can pull out that
color property.
I'll do a console log right here of I am in the component.
And after that, I will print out the color.
Okay, let's save this and let's go back over the browser and try to test this thing out.
I'm going to navigate back to our main landing page, and once they are, I'm going to make sure that
I refresh the page manually at least one time.
You'll notice now that we've got a console log right here of I am in the component and we see red and
if I also go back over to my terminal most importantly we'll see a console.log right here of I am on
the server.
I am in the component.
So what's the lesson here?
Well, again.
Let's get initial props.
Function is going to be executed during the server side rendering process.
This function is where we're going to attempt to fetch some data specifically for doing some initial
rendering of our app.
Any data that we returned from this function is going to show up inside of our component so we can freely
access all the data inside there.
If we need to fetch any data during the server side rendering process, we have to do it inside of get
initial props.
We cannot do it inside of a component.
And then finally, once our entire application is executing inside the browser, we're not really going
to rely upon get initial props too much after that.
Instead, we're going to be mostly concerned with fetching data as usual inside of a component.
So now that we've got some back story on server side rendering, quick pause right here and continue
in just a moment.